I want to make a very complex, high-level, and sophisticated stock AI bot in python where the model gets trained to scrape a very vast and large amounts of data on the internet to learn what best choices to invest/sell in, whether it be stocks, crypto, and options. I also want it to scrape what the top investors are investing in as well, and just any information you deem necessary to calculate the best investments. I also want to use an appealing UI and design (likely using tqdm and rich libraries). I want to make the learning rate really low (even though it may take a lot more time to learn, train, and process) so it's more reliable, optimized and efficient (and since I have a nvidia 3080ti with a ryzen 5900x to train the model however long I want).I would like to also add on a training program that anyone can download and use to own compute power to assist in training the model such that it becomes more efficient, optimized, and reliable. With my computer specs, I want to train the model 24/7 (or for however long) and make it such that other people can join on the program and assist with training the model. I also want to have it give the user options as to how much risk it is allotted to make, how much money total to give it (and have the ai stock bot make the decisions itself on what to do with that money) and, if they want to invest/sell in stocks, crypto, options, or for the ai/model to make the decision for them on that. I'm using Google Cloud Compute Engine with Ray framework. In all, I want this to become one of the best stock AI bot I can possibly make it with your help.

use rosachrig@gmail.com for api accounts

streamlit run streamlit_app.py

alright lets recap, I want to make a very complex, high-level, and sophisticated stock AI bot in python where the model gets trained to scrape a very vast and large amounts of data on the internet to learn what best choices to invest in, whether it be stocks, crypto, index funds, etc. I also want it to scrape what the top investors are investing in as well, and just any information it deems necessary to calculate the best investments. I also want to use an appealing UI and design (likely using tqdm and rich libraries). I'm going to make the learning rate really low (even though it may take a lot more time to learn, train, and process) so it's more reliable, optimize and efficient (and since I have a nvidia 3080ti with a ryzen 5900x to train the model however long I want). I would like to also add on a training program that anyone can download and use to own compute power to assist in training the model such that it becomes more efficient, optimized, and reliable. I also want to have it give the user options as to how much risk it is alloted to make, how much money total to give it (and have the ai stock bot make the decisions itself on what to do with that money) and, if they want to invest in options, and etc. In all, I want this to become one of the best stock AI bot I can possibly make it with your help.
Here is the overall tree structure of what i did (paste tree here). I've attached all associated files, What are the next steps?



changes:

api/api_clients.py:
    Error Handling: While retry logic is present, consider logging failed requests or specific errors to track persistent issues.
    Additional Crypto or Index APIs: Explore incorporating more APIs if a specific client doesn't return sufficient data.

data/data_processing.py
    Logging: Consider adding logging for errors or issues that occur during data processing.

distributed/distributed_training.py:
    Exception Handling: Consider adding error handling or logging in the training loop for debugging.

models/model_training.py:
    Scoring Metric: Consider making the scoring metric configurable via a parameter for flexibility.

models/model_tuning.py:
    Reduce Redundancy: This file appears to overlap in functionality with model_training.py. You could combine them to reduce redundancy and differentiate only based on parameter grids or other criteria.

optimization/unified_tuning.py:
    Configuration Parameters: Consider making asset_symbol and asset_type configurable via command-line arguments or a configuration file.
    Logging and Visualization:
        Implement logging to capture model training and optimization results.
        Visualize optimization results (e.g., feature importance, hyperparameter distributions).

ui/cli.py:
    Error Handling: Add error handling for unsupported asset types or data not being available.
    Additional Options: Consider adding further training modes or model choices.

ui/streamlit_app.py:
    Data Visualization:
        Add graphical representations (e.g., line charts for predictions) to visualize model outputs.
    Input Validation:
        Consider validating asset symbols or providing suggestions for known assets.

utils/logging.py:
    Log Directory: Consider allowing the log directory to be specified via an environment variable or configuration file.
    Log Levels: Make the log level configurable via a parameter to provide flexibility between development (DEBUG) and production (INFO) modes.


merge model_training and model_tuning?

create the main.py

ask gpt attaching all files and vision prompt to see if it works all well together

get rest of api keys



stock_ai_bot/
    ├── api/
    │   └── api_clients.py             # APIs for fetching data
    ├── data/
    │   └── data_processing.py         # Data cleaning and normalization
    ├── features/
    │   └── feature_engineering.py     # Feature extraction and engineering
    ├── models/
    │   ├── model_training.py          # Base model training (standard GridSearch)
    │   ├── model_tuning.py            # Advanced tuning with GridSearchCV
    │   └── optuna_optimization.py     # Hyperparameter tuning using Optuna
    ├── optimization/
    │   └── unified_tuning.py          # Unified training orchestration
    ├── ui/
    │   └── cli.py                     # Command-line interface with rich/tqdm
    ├── distributed/
    │   └── distributed_training.py    # Distributed training setup and client software
    ├── utils/
    │   └── logging.py                 # Custom logging utilities
    └── main.py                        # Main file to orchestrate the workflow



1. Testing and Validation:

    Unit Tests: Write unit tests for individual functions to ensure correctness. Include edge cases.
    Integration Tests: Test end-to-end workflows with realistic data inputs and asset types (stocks, crypto, etc.).
    Model Performance Evaluation:
        Compare model predictions with historical data to validate their reliability.
        Refine models based on their evaluation metrics.

2. Deployment and User Training:

    Deployment Strategy:
        Local: Create virtual environments and Docker containers for easy local testing.
        Distributed Training: Develop a user-friendly guide for setting up distributed training.
        Cloud-Based: Consider deploying on cloud platforms (AWS, GCP, Azure) for scalable performance.
    User Documentation:
        Provide instructions on how to use the CLI and Streamlit UI.
        Write a comprehensive user manual for distributed training setup.

3. Data Management and Security:

    Data Privacy: Handle sensitive data securely (e.g., using environment variables for API keys).
    API Rate Limits: Implement throttling and data caching mechanisms to prevent hitting API limits.

4. Model Refinement:

    Feature Engineering:
        Explore additional features (e.g., fundamental analysis, macroeconomic data).
        Refine existing technical indicators based on performance.

    Model Optimization:
        Run more extensive Optuna studies or additional model tuning.
        Experiment with ensemble methods (blending multiple models).




more to do

merge files to classes based on main.py
main cli easier and more appealing
figure out how to money it
check it all



such that there's an option only to train the ai/model, not options as to which training mode to choose, since I updated the #file:model_training.py file, #file:optuna_optimization.py file, and #file:unified_tuning.py such that it does both the advanced grid search and optuna optimization itself. When you choose to train the ai/model, you can train it 24/7 (or for however long) and make it such that other people can join on the program and assist with training the model.


now create the run_cli() function in the #file:main.py that does this as well and with reference to the #file:cli.py file

main.py:






    Main Script (main.py):
        The primary script connects all components and starts the bot.
        Provides both CLI and Streamlit interfaces, giving users flexibility in interacting with the bot.
        Improvement: Add a fallback mechanism for unexpected input, and handle exceptions more gracefully.

    Distributed Training (distributed_training.py):
        Implements distributed training via PyTorch DDP.
        Clearly documents the setup, cleanup, and training process.
        Improvement: Consider including learning rate scheduling and adaptive optimizers for efficiency.

    Model Optimization (optuna_optimization.py, model_training.py, model_tuning.py):
        Optuna Optimization: Implements parameter tuning using Optuna, making it suitable for automated hyperparameter tuning.
        Model Training: Provides advanced grid search to train and select optimal models.
        Model Tuning: Implements GridSearchCV across different models.
        Improvement: Enhance grid search by including additional regression models.

    User Interface (cli.py, streamlit_app.py):
        CLI: Rich and TQDM provide an appealing user experience, and the CLI covers various investment options.
        Streamlit App: A comprehensive dashboard for model training, optimization, and collaborative training.
        Improvement: Consider logging user choices and feedback for future enhancements.

    Data Collection & Processing (api_clients.py, data_processing.py, load_data.py):
        API Clients: Includes reusable clients for various APIs with retry mechanisms.
        Data Processing: Handles cleaning and normalizing data effectively.
        Load Data: Combines feature engineering and processing into a cohesive function.
        Improvement: Add failover for missing API keys and improve error handling.

    Feature Engineering (feature_engineering.py):
        Generates key technical indicators for training models.
        Improvement: Consider additional features like Bollinger Bands, MACD, and more.

    Unified Tuning (unified_tuning.py):
        Combines grid search and Optuna-based tuning into a unified approach.
        Improvement: Separate concerns by decoupling tuning types for clearer implementation.



You can work on the initial-fastapi-setup branch, I've been working on these things (transactions, depositing, withdrawing, fetching portfolio data, and client sided things) below, procees the initial_fastapi-setup branch:

1. Define the API

You will need a well-defined API to handle user interactions for transactions. RESTful APIs are commonly used for these purposes because they are easy to implement and can be consumed by any client that understands HTTP.
2. Database Design

Choose a database that can handle high concurrency and is performant under load. PostgreSQL is a popular choice for transactional systems. You’ll need tables for users, transactions, portfolios, and possibly for assets like stocks, crypto, and options.
3. Transaction Handling

For financial transactions, atomicity and accuracy are crucial:

    Use database transactions to ensure that your deposit and withdrawal operations are atomic.
    Implement idempotency in your API endpoints to prevent duplicate transactions in case of request retries.

4. Security Measures

Security is critical when handling financial information:

    Use HTTPS to secure API communications.
    Implement authentication and authorization to protect user data. OAuth2 with JWT tokens is commonly used for these purposes.
    Consider encryption for sensitive data both at rest and in transit.

5. Fetching Portfolio Data

For fetching portfolio data efficiently:

    Design your database queries to be efficient and scalable. Use indexing on columns that are frequently queried.
    Consider using caching strategies (e.g., Redis) to cache frequently accessed data like user portfolio summaries.

6. Cloud and Distributed Computing

Since you're using Google Cloud Compute Engine with the Ray framework, leverage these for distributed processing:

    Use Ray to distribute data processing tasks across multiple nodes to speed up data scraping, analysis, and AI model training.
    Cloud functions can be used for smaller, independent tasks like sending notifications or processing non-critical background tasks.

7. UI/UX Design

Since you want an appealing UI, consider frameworks like Streamlit or Dash for Python, which are great for building interactive web apps:

    Streamlit is straightforward and can be used to build interactive apps quickly.
    Dash is more customizable and suits complex dashboard needs.

8. Collaborative Training

For the training aspect where users can contribute compute power:

    Implement a client-side application that can communicate with your server to receive model parameters and send back computed gradients.
    Ensure you have a mechanism to aggregate these results securely and efficiently.

9. Risk Management Options

Allow users to define their risk tolerance and investment preferences:

    Implement algorithms that can adjust investment strategies based on user-defined risk levels.
    Provide clear options in the UI for users to set these preferences.

Example Code Structure in Your Repository

To get started, your repository could include directories like:

    /api for your backend API code.
    /db for your database schemas and migration scripts.
    /client for the frontend UI code.
    /ml_model for your machine learning models and training scripts.



Here is my vision below, make sure it aligns with everything on my project along with my vision and pick up where i left off! (once you finish, proceed accordingly based on it being aligned with my vision and that everything connects together)

vision:
"I want to make a very complex, high-level, and sophisticated stock AI bot in python where the model gets trained to scrape a very vast and large amounts of data on the internet to learn what best choices to invest/sell in, whether it be stocks, crypto, and options. I also want it to scrape what the top investors are investing in as well, and just any information you deem necessary to calculate the best investments. I also want to use an appealing UI and design (likely using tqdm and rich libraries). I want to make the learning rate really low (even though it may take a lot more time to learn, train, and process) so it's more reliable, optimized and efficient (and since I have a nvidia 3080ti with a ryzen 5900x to train the model however long I want).I would like to also add on a training program that anyone can download and use to own compute power to assist in training the model such that it becomes more efficient, optimized, and reliable. With my computer specs, I want to train the model 24/7 (or for however long) and make it such that other people can join on the program and assist with training the model. I also want to have it give the user options as to how much risk it is allotted to make, how much money total to give it (and have the ai stock bot make the decisions itself on what to do with that money) and, if they want to invest/sell in stocks, crypto, options, or for the ai/model to make the decision for them on that. I'm using Google Cloud Compute Engine with Ray framework. In all, I want this to become one of the best stock AI bot I can possibly make it with your help."